Constitution
1 Name-Objective
1.1 Section 1
This baseball league shall be known as the Chicago Metropolitan Baseball Association (C.M.B.A). The C.M.B.A has been formed for the purpose of providing the finest amateur baseball league in the State of Illinois and Midwest; a league where an up and coming young prospect for professional baseball may play and develop; where the talented veteran player can enjoy playing among the best competition; and bring friendship and sportsmanship to the Association.
1.2 Ethics
All Association members, including officers, managers, umpires, and players shall strive to be ethical, honorable, and truthful in all dealings concerning the League thereby promoting the Association as a first class league of impeccable integrity.
1.3 Sportsmanship
All Association members, including officers, managers, umpires, and players are expected to behave in a sportsmanlike manner, promoting fair competitive play in a respectful atmosphere.
2 Membership
2.1 Eligibility
Membership in the C.M.B.A is open to any amateur baseball franchise in the Greater Chicagoland area that qualifies under the rules and requirements for admission as set forth in this Constitution.
2.2 Classification
Membership shall be divided into the following four (4) classes:
1. In good standing with active franchises.
   1. These members shall have full playing and voting privileges.
2. In good standing that have been granted a leave of absence.
   1. These members shall not have voting privileges but may attend League meetings.
3. Not in good standing (temporary suspension for League rules violations) with active franchises.
   1. These members shall have full voting and game playing privileges.
      1. Games played by these members are subject to forfeit.
4. Not in good standing (indefinite suspension).
   1. These members shall have no game playing or voting privileges.
   2. May attend league meetings by special invitation of the President.
2.3 Rules and Regulations; Amendments
All Association members shall abide by and are subject to all rules and regulations as outlined in this Constitution and By-Laws, and are subject to the authority of the President, other Officers, the umpires and any other ruling officials so authorized.
1. These rules, regulations, articles, and By-Laws may not be suspended, set aside, or added to under any circumstances, regardless of the will of the managers.
2. This sub-section nullifies the “If both managers agree” concept.
3 Officers
3.1 Officers
The following shall be considered Officers of the League: President; Treasurer; and Rules and Competition Committee Members. Other Officers may be created by the President at his discretion or by vote of League members upon the request of a League Member. All offices shall be filled by an affirmative vote of League members.
3.2 Term of Office
1. The President shall serve a life term unless he chooses to voluntarily relinquish the office. The new President shall be chosen by a majority vote of the League membership.
2. All Officers other than President are subject to yearly review and reelection by League vote.
3.3 Umpires
Umpires shall have the sole responsibility for the enforcement of all sections in Articles IV and V of the By-Laws, except those sections that specify otherwise.
4 Meetings
4.1 Annual Meeting
The Association shall hold its annual meeting after January 1 of the following year at the time and place set by the President.
4.2 Additional Meetings
Additional meetings shall be called by the President for reasons at his discretion.
4.3 Rules and Competition Committee Meetings
The Rules and Competition Committee shall meet at the discretion of the President.
1. These meetings must be held in person
4.4 Validity
Only meetings called for and attended by the President will be considered valid and no votes held in the absence of the President will be considered binding.
4.5 Amendment Proposal
The complete proposed written text of any amendment(s) to this constitution must be submitted to the representatives of the teams before the amendment(s) can be voted on.
5 Finances
5.1 Fees
The President shall determine the franchise and annual entry fees. All other fees will be levied at the discretion of the League President.
1. Fees shall be levied with the understanding that the Association is a not for profit organization.
6 By-Laws
6.1 Purpose
These By-Laws shall stand as the official rules of the C.M.B.A.
6.2 Amendments
By-Laws may be amended, removed, or added by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Association members present at the time of the vote.
By-Laws
8 Membership-Finance
8.1 Standards
The following standards shall apply for consideration for membership by franchises in the C.M.B.A.
1. Quality of leadership within the franchise.
2. Good record of past performance in the following:
   1. Forfeits and punctuality at League games.
   2. Attitude and conduct of players and management.
   3. Financial responsibility.
   4. Ability of its players.
8.2 New franchises
The Association President shall present, upon acceptable review of its qualifications, a new franchise to the members at large for consideration. New franchises are allowed to present a positive case for inclusion.
1. Acceptance shall be affirmed with a simple majority vote of members in attendance.
8.3 Acceptance Fee
A franchise fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the Association Treasurer upon acceptance into the Association.
8.4 Rules Applicability
All Association members shall abide by and are subject to, without exception, all rules and regulations as outlined in the Constitution and By-Laws as well as the authority of the Association President.
8.5 Annual Fee
All Association members shall pay an annual fee.
1. This fee shall be determined by the Association President.
2. All teams new to the league shall be required to post a $300.00 performance bond. Said bond shall be considered a deposit toward the teams next years fees.
8.6 Payment of Dues
All Association members must have all fees paid by a date set by the President.
1. Penalty for late payment shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per week for no longer than five (5) weeks.
2. Members in violation of the above shall be placed on temporary suspension for a period of two (2) weeks.
3. Members who have not paid outstanding fees by the end of the two week suspension shall be placed on indefinite suspension until all fees are paid.
8.7 Fees
The annual League fee shall consist of, but are not limited to the following: Forfeit fee; All-Star Game fee; Performance bond; Field fees; Prize Money Fund; Tournament fees; and any other costs incurred by the League.
8.8 Fines
Any Association franchise or player may be susceptible to a fine by the President or Rules Committee as applicable for conduct unbecoming of a representative of the League and for any violation of this Constitution and its By-Laws.
1. Fines shall be determined by the President or committee as applicable and may not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00).
2. Fines must be paid in full by a date specified by the President. Teams with outstanding fines will be considered as temporarily suspended.
8.9 Good Standing
Members in good standing may be granted a leave of absence and are entitled to all privileges as outlined in Article II, § 2(B) of the Constitution.
1. Members in good standing on leave for more than two (2) years must reapply for membership.
8.10 Temporary Suspension
An Association franchise may be placed on temporary suspension by the President and are subject to rules set forth in Article II, §2(C) of the Constitution.
8.11 Indefinite Suspension
An Association franchise may be placed on indefinite suspension by the President and subject to rules set forth in Article II, §2(D) of the Constitution. Violations that may result in indefinite suspension are as follows:
1. Conduct detrimental to the objectives of the Association.
2. Two (2) forfeits of a game in one season.
   1. A team that is indefinitely suspended two consecutive seasons for violation of subsection (B) above, shall not be permitted to reapply for reinstatement, unless a change in management is presented to the league.
      1. The new management must be approved by the Association President.
      2. Reinstatement must be ratified by a majority of the association members.
      3. Tampering with players on the roster of another member franchise.
         1. Tampering shall be defined as the deliberate solicitation, without consent, by one Association member of a player who has made at least an oral commitment to play for another Association franchise.
   2. any additional definitions as stated in this document.
3. Consumption of alcoholic beverages on or in close proximity to the playing fields.
4. Violation of any written policies set forth by the issuer of any permits for field use by the Association.
5. Failure to comply with any of the stated codes of conduct as set forth in this document.
8.12 Reinstatement
An indefinitely suspended franchise may be reinstated by the President upon the resolution of any outstanding violations and the satisfactory guarantee of no further violations.
8.13 Additional Fees
The President may request additional fees to cover any costs that exceed the amounts originally budgeted for by the League.
8.14 Fees to the President
In the event the President is a franchise holder, the Rules and Competition Committee may levy any and all appropriate fines for infractions of this Constitution and By-Laws by his franchise
8.15 Outside Leagues
Teams may not play in leagues outside of the CMBA.
1. The only exception to this rule is if a team plays in a league which has a formal agreement with the CMBA that its playing schedule does not conflict with regularly scheduled CMBA games or playoffs.
8.16 Other Circumstances
Circumstances not specifically covered in Article I of these By-Laws shall be handled by the President.
9 Officers and Duties
9.1 Officers
The officers of the Association are the President, Treasurer, Rules and Competition Committee member, and the All-Star Game Organizer[a].
9.2 President
The duties and powers of the President are as follows:
1. Shall serve a life term or until voluntary relinquishment of the office.
2. Preside over all League meetings.
3. Official spokesman to news media and others whenever the Association’s point of view is needed.
4. Call all regular and Rules and Competition Committee meetings and assign the date and place thereof.
5. Appoint persons to positions as he deems necessary or until elections are held.
6. Assess fines and punishments as he deems necessary with just cause.
7. Calculate the Association’s budget.
8. Gather all information regarding protests.
9. Send out a weekly newsletter to the members and keep them apprised of the state of the league.
10. Judge and take action on all circumstances not covered in the Constitution and By-Laws in good faith and furtherance of the stated goals and principles of the league.
11. Interpret the rules and by-laws of this Constitution and make appropriate decisions thereof.
   1. Decisions of the President may be appealed to the Rules and Competition Committee. Appeals must be presented in writing and must contain specific grounds for the appeal.
9.3 Treasurer
The Treasurer shall be responsible for the League’s monetary assets and its proper handling and distribution as ordered by the league and its President.
9.4 Rules and Competition Committee
The Rules and Competition Committee, to be made up of the President and two (2) appointed franchise holders. An alternate member shall be appointed by the president if a committee member is unavailable or conflicted (i.e. the matter under consideration involves a player of the committee member’s team or the committee member), shall meet and take action concerning:
1. Official protests
2. Disciplinary matters referred to the committee pursuant to Article 15
3. Any decision of the President that has been officially appealed.
9.5 All-Star Game Organizer
The All-Star Game Organizer shall be responsible for the complete implementation of a mid-season All-Star Game. He shall be given a budgeted amount of money to be used for the procurement of a field and all of the requirements necessary for implementation as instructed by the League President.
9.6 Compensation
All officers other than the Rules Committee members, shall be granted compensation for time and expenses.
10 Meetings and Voting
10.1 Annual Meeting
The Association shall hold its annual meeting after January 1 of the following year. The President may call additional meetings at his discretion.
10.2 Voting Privileges
Each franchise with voting privileges as specified in Article II, §2 of the Constitution shall have one (1) vote at league meetings, regardless of the number of representatives the franchise has sent to the meeting.
10.3 President’s Role
The President shall chair the meeting. If the President is also a franchise holder, he must designate another person from his franchise to represent the team at league meetings. The President can only vote in the event of a tie vote among the members present at the meeting.
10.4 Voting Decisions
A simple majority vote shall determine all issues with these exceptions:
1. A 2/3 vote is necessary to:
   1. Amend the Constitution.
   2. Remove an Officer.
   3. Expel a team or player for violations of rules set forth in this Constitution.
10.5 Attendance
All franchise members are expected to attend all league meetings. Failure of a franchise to send a representative to a meeting may result in a ten dollar ($10.00) fine. Those members present at any meeting shall constitute a quorum and all votes by this quorum are binding.
11 Teams and Managers
11.1 Recognition
Teams shall be formally recognized as existing as an entity from April 1 through August 31 of the current season.
1. These dates shall serve as time periods as they pertain to all rules regarding rosters and team management.
11.2 Team name
Teams new to the Association, regardless of the makeup of the roster, shall not be allowed to use the name of any existing Association team. Teams from other recognized Associations or Leagues entering the C.M.B.A shall be allowed to use any team name provided it was the recognized existing name of the team prior to its membership in the Association. Changes in team names shall not affect a team’s status in the Association in any way provided the original recognized Manager is the entrant of the team.
11.3 Manager
The Manager is that person who has been officially recognized as the entrant of a team into the Association. The Manager has the ultimate responsibility for the team’s compliance with all by-laws as set forth in this Constitution. The manager of a franchise is responsible for all actions of his players and coaches and may be fined up to fifty dollars ($50.00) for any violations of codes of conduct and league rules as set forth in this document, or any other actions deemed detrimental to the objectives and standards of the Association.
1. Severe violations of league rules and codes of conduct may result in the suspension of the offending player or manager for the balance of the season or possible permanent banishment from the league, if so ruled by the President.
11.4 Manager Changes
Management of the team may officially change from one person to another during the dates that team is formally recognized as an entity as specified in Article IX, § 1 only with the written consent of the outgoing manager, or:
1. If rostered members of the team can show that the Manager has not been faithfully and/or competently fulfilling his requirements as outlined in this Constitution.
   1. Management changes under this section may only take place pending the outcome of a hearing, which shall take place at the earliest possible date, between the Association President, the Manager in question, and the parties seeking a change in management.
   2. The President may ask other managers to attend this hearing to serve in an advisory role.
   3. Failure to appear at this hearing by either party involved shall automatically result in an outcome favorable to the party in attendance.
   4. Teams with management conflicts of this nature may not play league games until the completion of this hearing and resolution of the conflict.
Management changes outside of the dates that a team is formally recognized as an entity as specified in Article IX § 1 are beyond the control of the Association and President and are not subject to any formal mechanisms of change as outlined in this Constitution. Resolution of any outstanding conflicts associated with such management changes are the sole responsibility of the parties involved.
11.5 Uniform
All players must be in uniform (bearing the teams name as represented to the league) by the teams first regular season game in order to be eligible to participate in games. Players may not obtain the jersey of another team member in order to obtain eligibility.
1. This deadline may be extended by the President at his discretion following a written petition by the team that shows a just and reasonable cause for extension, and evidence of a good faith effort to meet the deadline.
2. This rule applies to any players legally added to the roster after the stated deadline.
3. Uniforms shall consist of, but are not limited to, matching team caps and jerseys with assigned team uniform numbers. 
4. Players must be dressed in proper baseball pants. These pants need not match the team’s uniform, however, the Association encourages all players to wear matching pants. Sweat pants, shorts, jeans, or any other type of pants other than baseball pants are prohibited.
11.6 Team Insurance
All teams must have their own insurance.[b][c] The President and other officials are not responsible for any injuries or damages resulting from Association activities.
12 Team Rosters; Players and Eligibility; Uniforms
12.1 Roster Deadline; Roster Size
Association teams must submit a roster of their players to the President no later than June 1 of each year. Prior to June 1, each team has an “open roster.” Any team that does not submit its roster to the President by June 1 as required by this Section 11.1 and in accordance with Section 12.2 shall be temporarily suspended until its roster is so submitted.
Each team’s roster must contain a minimum of sixteen (16) players and shall not exceed twenty-six (26) players, in each case, excluding non-playing managers and coaches. 
Eligible players must be of at least eighteen (18) years of age by the date of the teams first game. No player may play for more than one team in a season (either before or after June 1).
12.2 Roster Information Requirements
A team’s rosters as submitted to the President on or before June 1 shall contain the following information for each rostered player: name, age, bats/throws, position(s) and uniform number. Rosters shall be submitted in Excel or via Google sheets (or similar editable spreadsheet.)
12.3 Roster Transactions
Teams may add a total of five (5) players to the roster after the June 1 roster submission deadline. The total number of players on a team still may not exceed twenty-six (26). In order to add players between June 1 and July 1 but not exceed the 26 player limit, a team may drop players who were rostered on June 1.  No players may be added after July 1, except as set forth below.
After July 1, upon request to the Rules and Competition Committee, a team may add a player if (i) the team’s roster has (or, upon the removal of players “missing in action” as described below, will) fall below the 16 player minmium and (ii) doing so will, in the good faith determination of the Rules and Competition Committee, prevent the team from forfeiting games. In no event shall a team be permitted to add players after July 1 that would cause the team to have more than 16 players.
In order for a team to declare a player “missing in action” after July 1, (i) the player shall have (a) failed to appear at all of the team’s games occuring prior to such request or (b) suffered a season-ending injury after June 1 and (ii) the team must drop the player from its roster.
A team may drop players at any time as long as the team’s roster does not fall below the 16 player minimum.
Any and all roster changes shall be submitted to the President in the form of an updated Excel, Google Sheets or similar editable spreadsheet. Roster changes shall be effective (and any players added in accordance with this Section 11.3) shall be effective as of the first pitch of the team’s first regularly scheduled game after the updated roster is submitted.
12.4 Alumni; Illegal Players
If a team would otherwise be required to forfeit a game after June 1 due to a lack of eligible players in attendance, the team can use one (but not more than one) of its former players (“alumni”) in that game. The team’s manager shall inform the opposing team’s manager and the President as soon as possible (and in no event later than the first pitch) of his team’s use of an alumni player and will provide to the opposing team’s manager and the President with the alumni player’s name, age, bats/throws, position and uniform number. Alumni players are not eligible to play in the playoffs. 
A team that uses an illegal player (i.e., a player who is not listed on the team’s then-current effective roster, a player who, prior to June 1, played on another team, an alumni player appearing in a playoff game or a rostered player appearing in a playoff game who is not eligible to do so pursuant to Secgtion 11.6) will be deemed to have forfeited any and all games in which the illegal player(s) participated.
12.5 Player Post Season Eligibility
Players must appear in at least five (5) games during the regular season in order to be eligible for post-season play. Upon request to the Rules and Competition Committee, a team may oExceptions may be made for players with long term injuries and will be considered by the rules and competition committee.
12.6 Team Fees
All players in the C.M.B.A. are expected to pay their team fees. Players will not be allowed to switch teams within the association unless or until any and all debts are paid in full.
12.7 Free Agents
A player must inform the League President and his manager no later than February 15 of the upcoming season if he wishes to leave his team and become a free agent. After this he is free to play for another team in the CMBA. A manager may waive this deadline for an individual player at the manager’s discretion. If the player fails to notify as specified, that player shall be disqualified from playing on another C.M.B.A. team for that season.
12.8 Other Circumstances
Circumstances not specifically covered in Article IV of these By-Laws shall be handled by the President.
13 General Play
13.1 Playing Rules
The C.M.B.A shall follow the playing rules of the American League with the inclusion and possible exclusion of other rules as found in this document.
13.2 Length of Game
All games shall be seven (7) innings or:
1. Darkness prevents further safe play as determined by the umpire.
2. The umpire calls the game for just cause under the rules.
3. Rain or other inclement weather precludes safe conditions.
4. A tie score extends the game into extra innings.
5. Slaughter Rule: If after 4 complete innings the visiting team is ahead in the score by 15 or more runs OR if after 3½ innings the home team is ahead by the same, the game will be ended and the leading team declared the winner.
   1. If after 5 or more complete innings the visiting team is ahead in the score by 12 or more runs OR if after 4½ innings or more the home team is ahead by the same, the game will be ended and the leading team declared the winner.
6. Individual games as part of a doubleheader have a 2½ hour time limit for the start of the last inning.[d][e]
   1. This rule shall not apply in playoff or championship games.
7. Respect local field rules (e.g. lightning detector)
12.3 Game Time
The starting time for all weeknight games shall be 5:50 p.m. for fields without lights. Starting times for games played at lighted fields and on the weekends shall be determined by the League. Forfeit times for 5:50 games shall be 6:10, no exceptions. Forfeit times for games at lighted fields and weekends shall be 20 minutes after the specified starting time.
1. Only games played at lighted fields can legally begin after 6:30PM..
13.4 Minimum Number of Players
Teams must start the game at the designated time if they have eight (8) players present. Teams may not wait for other players to arrive and must submit their lineup at this time. Teams may begin a game with eight (8) players up to two (2) times in one season. The game must begin as soon as a team has 8 players present, a team cannot wait until forfeit time. If the ninth player does not arrive, or arrives after forfeit time the game is declared a technical forfeit.
1. In the event a team starts a game with eight (8) players, the ninth spot in the batting order shall be considered an out recorded to the pitcher.
   1. A team may insert a ninth player in the vacant ninth spot after the start of play.
2. A technical forfeiting team shall be awarded only one point for a victory, regardless of whether or not it finished with nine (9).
3. A team that fails to field nine (9) rostered players at the start of the game after receiving 2 (two) prior technical forfeits shall forfeit the game.
4. The time that this rule takes effect is the scheduled forfeit time. .
13.5 Losing a Player During a Game
A team may finish the game a player short, that is one (1) player less than they started the game with (eight (8) players for a nine (9) man line-up, nine (9) players for a ten (10) man), provided the team does not fall below this minimum.
1. The vacated spot in the batting order shall be considered an automatic out.
2. Should a team fall below the minimum, the game is terminated and the team loses by forfeit.
13.6 Official Game
Only games played under the auspices of both of the recognized Managers of teams participating shall count as official. In the event that a game does not go the necessary seven (7) innings, it shall be declared official if the game goes four and one half (4½) innings with the home team ahead or five (5) innings if the home team is behind. If a game is tied after becoming an official game and cannot be continued for whatever reason, it will be continued at a later date to be decided by the President. Ties will be declared if the game is not completed by the final day of the regular season.
1. The only exception to any of above shall be if one team is ahead by 10 or more runs at the end of three (3) complete innings and the game cannot be completed on account of darkness, rain or other circumstances that will permit the safe conclusion of the game. The team ahead at this time shall be declared the winner of the game.
13.7 End of Game
No inning can start after 8:15 p.m. unless the following circumstances exist:
1. The game is played at a lighted field.
2. The umpire may stop a game prior to the completion of seven (7) innings if he determines that rain or darkness prohibits the safe continuation of the game. In this event, the team with the lead at the end of the last completed full inning shall be declared the winner, unless the home team has assumed the lead in the incomplete inning; then the home team is declared the winner.
13.8 Equipment
All teams are expected to have a set of bases, a home plate, and a pitching rubber. The home team shall be responsible for accurately setting up the bases, and if necessary, home plate and the pitching rubber. Should the home team fail to have these necessities by the start of the game, they will lose by forfeit. The visiting team can lend the equipment, although they are not required to do so.
13.9 Bats
All bats must be wood or BBCOR certified.
1. Use of an illegal bat as stated above shall be subject to the Major League rules that govern this area.
13.10 Field Maintenance
All teams are responsible for the maintenance and cleanup of the field and dugout areas after a game. Both teams must fill in all infield, batter’s box, and pitching mound holes. Additionally, both teams must have adequate equipment on hand for field maintenance. Teams who repeatedly fail to do proper post-game maintenance shall be fined.
13.11 Approved Baseballs
Only Major League regulation balls will be allowed for game play. Accepted brands and ball types include, but are not limited to, the Rawlings RO series, Wilson A1000 series, and Diamond D-1 series. The home team must supply two (2) and the visitors one (1) ball at the start of each game. Additional balls shall be supplied alternately by each team beginning with the visiting team. Teams that supply non-approved balls shall forfeit the game.
13.12 Payment of Umpires
Umpires are to be paid on the field promptly upon request.
13.13 Designated Hitter
The Association shall follow the American League designated hitter rule at all times, however a team may D.H. for any position on the field. Teams are not obligated to play a DH.
13.14 Extra Hitter
Prior to the start of the game a team may choose to play an extra hitter (EH). If the team uses this option, the following conditions apply:
1. An EH shall only bat. They cannot take a position in the field as a tenth fielder.
2. The EH shall be treated like any other position in the field. He can be substituted for, switch positions, or anything else that a position player can do.
3. The playing of an EH brings the number of players in the batting order to ten (10) players.
13.15 Courtesy Runner
Teams may use courtesy runners for pitchers and catchers at any time. It is not mandatory to do so (speed-up rule), but the umpire(s) are required to keep the game moving expeditiously.
1. Courtesy runners for pitchers and catchers can not be, nor have been in the game at any time other than as a courtesy runner, or:
   1. Teams with no eligible players remaining on the bench must use the first player taken out of the game as the courtesy runner.
2. The pitcher or catcher must play at least one (1) defensive out to be eligible for a courtesy runner unless they reach base in the first inning as a member of the visiting team.
13.16 Field Status
The home team shall be responsible for checking the status of the field in the event of rain. The home team must report to the President on the status of the field no later than 2:00 pm for a weeknight game, and at least 2 hrs. before a weekend game. The visiting manager is encouraged to contact the President for information regarding the status of the field.
1. Any manager who knowingly falsifies information regarding the status of the field to avoid playing the game will be fined and the team will forfeit the game.
13.17 Schedule
Teams may not change times, places, or dates of games without the consent of the President.
1. Such games played shall be considered unofficial.
2. The managers from both teams must contact the President to confirm any changes that they wish to make to the official schedule.
Any postponed games will be rescheduled in a timely fashion by the managers of that game for the next possible date. If the managers cannot come to an agreement in a timely fashion, the President may reschedule the game.
13.18 Notification of Results
The winning team shall be responsible for notifying the President of the score of the game no later than 10:00 AM. the day after the game was played, via text message, email, or telephone call.
13.19 Uncompleted Games
All games not completed by the end of the regular season shall count as losses for both teams unless a team deliberately attempts to avoid playing a sanctioned game. The team that was willing to play the game will be judged the forfeit winner if so ruled by the President.
13.20 Substitution of an Umpire
Should a league sanctioned umpire fail to appear at game time, the teams can choose to play the game with an umpire(s) of mutual choosing. The President needs to be informed by both teams before the game to make it official.
13.21 Smoking
Smoking shall be prohibited in the dugout and on the playing field during the game.
13.22 Alcohol
No Alcoholic beverages shall be permitted on or in the close proximity of a team’s bench. Teams in violation of this rule will forfeit the game and be automatically fined and temporarily suspended. Offending players will be fined and suspended for two (2) weeks from the date of the infraction. A second violation of this rule shall result in the automatic expulsion of the team from the Association. Managers are responsible for the enforcement of this rule and are accountable for any violations.
1. All teams are subject to any and all additional rules and regulations regarding alcoholic beverages as stated by the issuer of the field permit.
13.23 Collisions
On any close play at ANY base, it is the base runners responsibility to slide OR avoid contact. NO COLLISIONS ARE ALLOWED, UNLESS THE CONTACT RESULTS FROM A SLIDE. Fielders must abide by the Official Baseball Rules regarding OBSTRUCTION (Rule 2.00 Definition; Rule 7.06). Penalty: Unless the umpire rules that the contact was incidental or the result of Obstruction by the fielder, the runner shall be called out, the ball is dead and the runner is automatically ejected from the game.
1. A player who is ejected for a flagrant collision will be suspended for three (3) games and fined $30. A second offense (not necessarily in the same season) will result in the player being suspended for the remainder of that season (including playoffs). A third offense will result in permanent banishment from the league.
   1. A flagrant collision is defined as an intentional act to forcibly collide with a fielder.
13.24 Umpire Disputes
Discussion of a disputed umpires call shall be limited to the managers, base coaches and the “injured” player. No player or coach (third party) shall be allowed to leave the dugout or his defensive position to join in. The penalty for violating this rule shall be the immediate ejection from the game for the perpetrator.
13.25 Injuries
Should a player suffer a debilitating injury during the game and cannot continue, and a team has no more eligible players on it’s bench, a team can use a player that was removed from the game to replace him. This replacement player must be the first player removed from the game, and if this player is unavailable the next player is used (and so on).
14 Protest and Forfeits
14.1 Timeframe and Reporting
All protests must be filed with the President within forty-eight (48) hours of the alleged infraction and on the League supplied form. All requested information must be accurately reported.
1. Any manager who knowingly falsifies information on the protest form will be fined and suspended as determined by the President. The manager’s team will forfeit the game.
14.2 Ground for Protest
Protests may only be made on the grounds of a violation of a rule stated in this Constitution and its By-Laws or in violation of a stated American League rule. Protests may not, under any circumstances, be based on the judgment of an umpire’s call.
1. The protesting team must notify the umpire of the protest at the time the violation has occurred. Protests will not be considered if no such notification is made at the proper time. Umpires must be notified of the rule that is being violated.
14.3 Ruling
Upon the filing of a protest with the President, the President shall call a meeting of the Committee at the earliest possible date. Judgement regarding the merit of the protest shall be made after deliberation.
14.4 Notification
Teams that win games by forfeit must notify the President that very day.
14.5 Umpire Payment
Forfeiting teams must pay, at the time of the forfeit, the full cost of the umpire(s). Teams may not play another game until payment is made.
1. In the event a team is unable to pay the umpire at the proper time, the team’s forfeit fee will be used to cover initial forfeits. The cost of additional forfeits will paid by the team.
   1. Teams must pay for all outstanding forfeits before it can play another game.
14.6 Forfeits
Should a team forfeit a game they will lose 2 points in the standings. Should a team forfeit 2 games in a season they will be banned from playing games for the remainder of the season and playoffs and placed on indefinite suspension, not in good standing.
1. All games played by the indefinitely suspended team shall count in the official standings.
   1. All subsequent games shall be recorded as a loss for the suspended team and a win for the scheduled opponent.
14.7 Other Circumstances


15 Statistics and Playoffs
15.1 Newsletter
The President shall send out a weekly newsletter to all members during the season. The newsletter will include all reported scores and league standings. Additional pertinent information will be provided.
15.2 Ties
In the event two teams finish the regular season in a tie for a position, the following tie-breaking procedure will take effect:
1. Record in head-to-head competition.
2. Record within the division (if applicable).
3. Least runs allowed for the season.
4. Coin toss.
15.3 Points for Standings
The Association shall use a point system to determine the standings. Two (2) points shall be awarded for a win, one (1) point for a tie, zero (0) points for a loss and minus 2 points for losing by forfeit.
15.4 Playoff Format
The playoff format shall be determined by annual vote. The team with the better record or winner of tie-breaking procedures shall be the home team.
15.5 Prizes an Awards
Playoff prizes and awards shall be determined by the membership of the league.
15.6 Playoff Umpire Selection
For the playoffs, each team will be granted the ability to exclude one (1) particular umpire from participating in said teams series. The name of this umpire shall be submitted to the chief umpire as soon as possible prior to the series. This umpire “veto” will be binding UNLESS the chief umpire cannot find any other umpire who can work any game in this series.
15.7 Completion of Playoff Games
All playoff games must be played to completion. If a playoff game is suspended for any reason, the game must be finished at a later date declared by the president. This game is declared suspended, and regardless of what inning or circumstance, the game will be continued from the point in the game when it was suspended.
1. The “Slaughter Rule” is applicable for the playoffs (Article V, Section 2E)
16 Sportsmanship and Prohibited Conduct
16.1 Sportsmanship
All association members are expected to engage in a sportsmanlike and mutually respectful behavior. Any manager or the chief umpire may request that the rules and competition committee review the specific actions of another player, coach, manager or team. The rules and competition committee shall review, and in its discretion, determine the appropriate disciplinary action to be taken, if any. Disciplinary actions include a written warning, fines, temporary suspension, and banishment from the association. The committee should take under consideration repeat offenses. The president shall enforce any discipline determined by the committee.
16.2 Fighting
Fighting or any physical altercation shall not be tolerated in the C.M.B.A. Players cannot leave the bench or their positions during a fight for any reason; the managers, the on-the-field coaches and umpire(s) shall be responsible for restoring order. Specific penalties for violations are listed below.
1. Any player who instigates or initiates an on-field fight shall be fined and suspended from league play for no less than one season
2. Any player or coach who participates in a fight shall be suspended for three games and fined $50.00.
16.4 Assault of an Umpire
Any player or coach who physically assaults an umpire will be permanently banished from the league. He may also be arrested if the umpire chooses to press charges.


[a]Not in use
[b]enforced?
[c]defer this to the league
[d]not enforced
[e]revisit